TQ1: Bookkeeping, controls and accounting

**STUDY GUIDE**

Detailed syllabus
The detailed syllabus includes the following:

|      |                                                                                                  |
| :--- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **E** | **Explain and apply control accounts and the use of journals, specifically addressing:**        |
|       | • Maintain and correctly use control accounts                                                    |
|       | • Reconcile control accounts and perform bank reconciliations                                  |
|       | • The use of correcting journals                                                                 |

Exam context

This is another chapter that is concerned with checking for errors in the bookkeeping system
and correcting them or brining the accounting records up-to-date.

This chapter explains how to reconcile the balance in a cash account in the general ledger to
the balance on the bank statement.

Questions on topics in this chapter will be multiple choice questions frequently requiring
calculations. In the exam you may be required to:
*   Correct cash book errors and/or omissions
*   Derive bank statement and cash book balances from given information
*   Identify the bank balance to be reported in the final accounts

Tutor tips

Learn the proformas for the bank reconciliation and practice using the examples in this
chapter.

Make sure that you understand the purpose of a bank reconciliation and can identify the
main reasons for differences between the cash book and the bank statement and what to do
with them.

Remember that the aim is to correct the cash account balance for items in the bank
statement but not in the cash book. There is no correction to make for items in the cash book
but not in the bank statement. These are amounts (receipts and payments) that have been
correctly accounted for in the general ledger but have not yet cleared through the bank.

A bank statement is presented from the perspective of the bank (and this often confuses
people):

*   Credit balance on the bank statement means the bank has a liability – the client is owed
    money by the bank this will be a Dr balance (an asset) in the client's control account.
*   Debit balance on the bank statement means the bank has an asset - the client owes
    them money and this will be a Cr balance (a liability) in the client's control account.

Reconcile your own bank statement if you still receive one.
