```markdown
Chapter 10: Correction of errors
1.3 Errors highlighted by the extraction of a trial balance
As stated earlier, one way of finding some errors in the accounting records is to
extract a trial balance from the general ledger. If the total of the debit balances
does not equal the total of the credit balances on the general ledger accounts
then an error or several errors have been made.
If the trial balance does not balance then this will be due to an error where the
debits and credits are not the same, so that the error results in the debit entry in
one account in the general ledger not being equal to the matching credit entry in
another account.
Types of error which affect the balancing of the trial balance are as follows:
*   A transaction might be recorded with a debit entry in one account, but the
    corresponding credit entry is omitted. Similarly, a transaction might be
    recorded with a credit entry in one account, but the corresponding debit
    entry is omitted. For example a payment might be recorded as a credit
    entry in the cash book but omitted from the payables ledger control
    account.
*   There could be a transposition error in one account. For example, the debit
    entry might be 1,234,000 KHR and the corresponding credit entry might be
    1,324,000 KHR. One of the entries must be incorrect.
*   A transaction might be recorded as a debit entry in two accounts, instead of
    as a debit entry in one account and a credit entry in the other account. For
    example, rental income might be recorded as a debit entry in the cash book
    and, in error, as a debit entry in the rental expense account.
*   Similarly, a transaction might be recorded as a credit entry in two accounts,
    instead of being a debit entry in one account and a credit entry in the other.
    For example, discounts received might be recorded as a credit entry in the
    discount received account and, in error as a credit entry in the payables
    ledger control account.
*   There might be a mistake in casting one or another side of an account. This
    would lead to the extraction of an incorrect balance.

You need to be able to:
*   identify errors in a double entry accounting system, and
*   know how to correct them.

Corrections to errors in an accounting system are recorded as journal entries and
then posted from the journal to the relevant accounts in the general ledger.

1.4 Errors not highlighted by the extraction of a trial balance
A trial balance is only useful in helping to identify errors where the debit and
credit entries in the general ledger accounts do not match. It does not help with
the identification of errors where there has not been a mismatch between debit
and credit entries.
